randio
======

Random number generator from rtl-sdr supported radio dongles.

randio provides a subclass of random.Random that acts like a normal
Python random number generator, but gets its seeds from an rtl-sdr
radio dongle commonly available for around $20 USD.

Usage
=====

randio can be installed from Pypi with pip or easy_install:

    pip install randio

And tested interactively from the interpreter by running the module:

    python -i -m 'randio'

When run as a script, the module creates a default randio object that
looks for rtl-sdr dongle number 0.  To have it use another dongle, set
the 'RANDIO_DEV_INDEX' environment variable before running the script.

When the module imported, there is a couple of second delay while
radio signals are sampled to provide a random number generator seed.
By default randio takes 1024 samples from 32 randomly chosen
frequencies between 64Mhz and 1100Mhz.

A randio object works like any other python Random subclass:

    >>> randio.random()
    0.8497721577857263
    >>> 

A new seed can be generated by calling the 'randio()' method.  This
may take a few seconds while frequencies are scanned.

    >>> randio.seed(randio.randio())

Calling the 'randio()' method directly returns the bare tuple of raw
sample data from the radio.

Randio objects also provide a 'sha512' hash function that returns a
hash object of the accumulated sample radio data.

    >>> randio.sha512().hexdigest()
    '61bb7e4a1170f2fbdc170ffd8760b192e0d0f3631358c94a87606594571af1beb6507877d3b2838706fc692fdae4ff503393765941d2b44bc0bd7f9e27cf19dd'

The 'sha512' method always gets fresh sample data per call, so will
allways take a few seconds to collect the samples.